
 Lymphoid neoplasms often disrupt normal immune
function. Both immunodeficiency (made evident by
increased susceptibility to infection) and autoimmunity
may be seen, sometimes in the same patient. Ironically,
patients with inherited or acquired immunodeficiencies
are at high risk for the development of certain lym-
phoid neoplasms, particularly those associated with
EBV infection.

 Although NHLs often manifest at a particular tissue
site, sensitive molecular assays usually show that
the tumor is widely disseminated at diagnosis. As
a result, with few exceptions, only systemic therapies
are curative for those with NHL. By contrast, Hodgkin
lymphoma often arises at a single site and spreads
in a predictable fashion to contiguous lymph node
groups.

Precursor B and T Cell Neoplasms
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia/Lymphoma

ALL is the most common cancer of children，About 85%
are B-ALLs

Many chromosomal aberrations seen in ALL dysregu-
late the expression and function of transcription factors
that are required for the normal differentiation of B and
T cell progenitors. Up to 70% of T-ALLs have gain-of-
function mutations in NOTCH1, a gene that is essen-
tial for T cell differentiation, whereas a high fraction of
B-ALLs has loss-of-function mutations in genes that are
required for B cell differentiation, such as PAX5. These
varied mutations appear to promote maturation arrest
and increased self-renewal, a feature of immortalized
cells, which, as mentioned, is one of the hallmarks of
cancers.

 aberrations that drive cell growth, such
as mutations that increase tyrosine kinase activity and RAS
signaling, also are common.

#酶  TdT+ an enzyme specifically expressed in pre–B and pre–T cells,
is present in more than 95% of cases. Further subtyping of
ALL into pre–B and pre–T cell types relies on stains for
lineage-specific markers, such as the B cell marker CD19
and the T cell marker CD3.

Most common in childhood pre–B cell tumors are hyperdiploidy (more than 50
chromosomes/cell) and a (12;21) translocation involving
the ETV6 and RUNX1 genes, creating a fusion gene encod-
ing an aberrant transcription factor, whereas about 25% of
adult pre–B cell tumors have a (9;22) translocation involv-
ing the ABL and BCR genes. Pre–T cell tumors are asso-
ciated with diverse chromosomal aberrations, including
frequent translocations involving the T cell receptor loci
and certain transcription factor genes, as well as mutations
that inactivate tumors suppressor genes such as PTEN
(leading to increased pro-growth signaling) and CDKN2A,
which encodes a negative regulator of the cell cycle and a
positive regulator of p53.

Despite its highly malignant natural history, pediatric
ALL is one of the great success stories of oncology. With
aggressive chemotherapy, about 95% of children with ALL
obtain a remission, and 75% to 85% are cured.

Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia/Small
Lymphocytic Lymphoma

CLL/SLL is in which
increased tumor cell survival appears to be more impor-
tant than tumor cell proliferation per se. In line with this
idea, CLL/SLL cells contain high levels of BCL2, a protein
that inhibits apoptosis (Chapters 1 and 6). One mechanism
of BCL2 overexpression appears to be chromosomal dele-
tions that lead to the loss of genes encoding micro-RNAs
that are negative regulators of BCL2. Also of critical impor-
tance are signals generated by surface immunoglobulin (the
so-called B cell receptor, or BCR). BCR signals flow through
an intermediary called Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) that ulti-
mately contributes to the expression of genes that promote
the survival of CLL/SLL cells.

CLL/SLL also causes immune dysregulation, particu-
larly of normal B cells. Through unclear mechanisms, the
accumulation of CLL/SLL cells suppresses normal B cell
function, often resulting in hypogammaglobulinemia. Para-
doxically, approximately 15% of patients develop auto-
antibodies against their own red cells or platelets. When
present, the autoantibodies are made by nonmalignant
bystander B cells, indicating that CLL/SLL cells somehow
impair immune tolerance.

 smudge cells

CLL/SLL is a neo-
plasm of mature B cells expressing the CD20 and surface
immunoglobulins. The tumor cells also express CD5.

only CLL/SLL and mantle cell lymphoma (discussed later)
commonly express CD5. Approximately 50% of tumors
have karyotypic abnormalities, the most common of which
are trisomy 12 and deletions involving portions of chro-
mosomes 11, 13, and 17. Unlike in other B cell neoplasms,
chromosomal translocations are rare.

 Insights into the molec-
ular pathogenesis of CLL/SLL has led to development of
effective new drugs that variously inhibit BCR signaling
(e.g., by targeting BTK) or BCL2 function. However, cure
may only be achieved with hematopoietic stem cell trans-
plantation,

A small fraction of tumors
transform to aggressive tumors resembling diffuse large B
cell lymphoma (Richter transformation); after transforma-
tion occurs, the median survival is less than 1 year.

Follicular Lymphoma  40% of the adult
NHLs in the United States

Greater than 85% of follicular lymphomas have a charac-
teristic (14;18) translocation that fuses the BCL2 gene on
chromosome 18 to the IgH locus on chromosome 14. This
chromosomal rearrangement results in the inappropriate
“overexpression” of BCL2 protein, which you will recall

These tumors express B cell markers
such as CD20 and the germinal center B cell markers CD10
and BCL6; of note, BCL6 is a transcription factor that is
required for the generation of germinal center B cells.

 follicular lymphoma is not
curable, an unfortunate feature shared with most other
relatively indolent lymphoid malignancies. As a result,
therapy with cytotoxic drugs and rituximab (anti-CD20
antibody) is reserved for those with bulky, symptomatic
disease. BTK and BCL2 inhibitors are also active in this
disease and are being evaluated in clinical trials. 

#药物 cytotoxic drugs and rituximab (anti-CD20
antibody)  BTK and BCL2 inhibitors

Mantle Cell Lymphoma

Almost all tumors have an (11;14) translocation that
fuses the cyclin D1 gene to the IgH locus. This transloca-
tion leads to overexpression of cyclin D1, which you will
recall stimulates growth by promoting the progression of
cells from the G1 phase to the S phase of the cell cycle

 The tumor cells express surface IgM
and IgD, the B cell antigen CD20, and CD5, and they
contain high levels of cyclin D1 protein.

 Like CLL/SLL cells, mantle cell lymphoma cells
depend on signals generated through BTK for survival,
and it is hoped that newly available BTK inhibitors will
improve clinical outcomes.

Extranodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma

This indolent B cell tumor arises most commonly in epi-
thelial tissues such as the stomach, salivary glands, small
and large bowel, lungs, orbit, and breast.
Pathogenesis
Extranodal marginal zone lymphoma is an example of
a cancer that arises within and is sustained by chronic
inflammation.
 This is a tumor of mature B cells
expressing CD20 and surface immunoglobulin, usually
IgM

cured by simple excision followed by radiotherapy.

Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma  35%
of adult NHLs

About one-third of diffuse large B cell lymphomas have
rearrangements of the BCL6 gene, located on 3q27, and
an even higher fraction of tumors have activating point
mutations in the BCL6 promoter. Both aberrations result in
increased levels of BCL6 protein, an important transcrip-
tional regulator of gene expression in germinal center B
cells. Another 30% of tumors have a (14;18) translocation
involving the BCL2 gene that results in overexpression of
BCL2 protein. Some of these tumors may represent “trans-
formed” follicular lymphomas. The remaining tumors
have other diverse driver mutations, such as translocations
involving the MYC gene.

 These tumors express the B cell
antigen CD20. Many also express surface IgM and/or IgG.
Other antigens (e.g., CD10, BCL2) are variably expressed.

 EBV-associated diffuse large B cell lymphomas arise in the
setting of AIDS, iatrogenic immunosuppression (e.g., in
transplant recipients), and the elderly. In the posttrans-
plantation setting, these tumors often begin as EBV-
driven polyclonal B cell proliferations that may regress
if immune function is restored.
• Kaposi sarcoma herpesvirus (KSHV), also called human her-
pesvirus type 8 (HHV-8), is associated with rare primary
effusion lymphomas, which may arise within the pleural
cavity, pericardium, or peritoneum. These tumors are
latently infected with KSHV, which encodes proteins
homologous to several known oncoproteins, includ-
ing cyclin D1. As with EBV-related lymphomas, most
affected patients are immunosuppressed.
• Mediastinal large B cell lymphoma occurs most often in
young women and shows a predilection for spread to
abdominal viscera and the central nervous system.

Without treatment, diffuse large cell B cell lymphomas
are aggressive and rapidly fatal. With intensive combi-
nation chemotherapy and anti-CD20 immunotherapy,
complete remissions are achieved in 60% to 80% of the
patients; of these, approximately 50% remain free of
disease and appear to be cured. For those not so fortu-
nate, other aggressive treatments (e.g., high-dose chemo-
therapy and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation) offer
some hope.

Burkitt Lymphoma

Burkitt lymphoma is highly associated with transloca-
tions involving the MYC gene on chromosome 8 that
result in overexpression of the MYC transcription factor.
As mentioned in Chapter 6, MYC is a master regulator of
Warburg metabolism (aerobic glycolysis), a cancer hall-
mark that is associated with rapid cell growth. In keeping
with this association, Burkitt lymphoma is said to be the
fastest growing human tumor. Most translocations fuse
MYC with the IgH gene on chromosome 14, but variant
translocations involving the κ or λ light chain loci also
are observed. The net result of each is the same—the dys-
regulation and overexpression of MYC.

 These tumors express surface IgM,
the B cell marker CD20, and the germinal center B cell
markers CD10 and BCL6.

 The disease usually
arises at extranodal sites. Endemic tumors often manifest
as maxillary or mandibular masses, whereas abdominal
tumors involving the bowel, retroperitoneum, and ovaries
are more common in North America. Leukemic presenta-
tions sometimes occur and must be distinguished from
ALL, which is treated with different drug regimens. Burkitt
lymphoma is highly aggressive; however, with very inten-
sive chemotherapy regimens, a majority of patients can be
cured.

neoplastic plasma
cells often synthesize excess immunoglobulin light chains along
with complete immunoglobulins. In unusual cases, tumors
may produce only light chains, which are detected and
quantified in the blood and the urine by highly sensitive
tests.
Terms used to describe the abnormal immunoglobulins
associated with plasma cell neoplasms include monoclo-
nal gammopathy, dysproteinemia, and paraproteinemia. These
abnormal proteins are associated with several clinicopath-
ologic entities:
• Multiple myeloma (plasma cell myeloma), the most impor-
tant plasma cell neoplasm, usually presents as tumor-
ous masses scattered throughout the skeletal system.
Solitary plasmacytoma is an infrequent variant that pre-
sents as a single mass in bone or soft tissue. Smoldering
myeloma is another uncommon variant defined by a lack
of symptoms and a high plasma M component.
• Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance
(MGUS) is applied to patients without signs or symp-
toms who have small to moderately large M compo-
nents in their blood. MGUS is very common in older
adults and has a low but constant rate of transformation
to a symptomatic monoclonal gammopathy, most often
multiple myeloma.
• Primary or immunocyte-associated amyloidosis results
from a monoclonal proliferation of plasma cells secret-
ing light chains that are deposited as amyloid. Some patients have overt multiple myeloma, but others have
only a minor clonal population of plasma cells in the
marrow.
• Waldenström macroglobulinemia is a syndrome in which
high levels of IgM lead to symptoms related to hyper-
viscosity of the blood. It occurs in older adults, most
commonly in association with lymphoplasmacytic lym-
phoma (described later).

MM

. The median age at
diagnosis is 70 years, and it is more common in males
and in people of African origin. It principally involves the
bone marrow and usually is associated with lytic lesions
throughout the skeletal system.
The most frequent M protein produced by myeloma
cells is IgG (60%), followed by IgA (20%–25%); only rarely
are IgM, IgD, or IgE M proteins observed. In the remain-
ing cases, the plasma cells produce only κ or λ light chains.
Because free light chains are small in size, they are also
excreted in the urine, where they are referred to as Bence
Jones proteins. In many cases, the malignant plasma cells
secrete both complete immunoglobulins and free light
chains and thus produce both M proteins and Bence Jones
proteins. As described later, the excess light chains have
important pathogenic effects.

As with most other B cell malignancies, myeloma often
has chromosomal translocations that fuse the IgH locus
on chromosome 14 to oncogenes such as the cyclin D1
and cyclin D3 genes. As might be surmised from this,
dysregulation of D cyclins is common in multiple myeloma
and is believed to contribute to increases in cell prolifera-
tion. Proliferation of myeloma cells also is supported by the
cytokine interleukin 6 (IL-6), which is produced by fibro-
blasts and macrophages in the bone marrow stroma. Late
in the course, translocations involving MYC are sometimes
observed, particularly in patients with aggressive disease.
Multiple myeloma has a number of untoward effects
on the skeleton, the immune system, and the kidney, all of
which contribute to morbidity and mortality

myeloma-
derived factors upregulate the expression of the receptor
activator of NF-κB ligand (RANKL) by bone marrow
stromal cells, which in turn activate osteoclasts. Other
factors released from tumor cells are potent inhibitors
of osteoblast function. The net effect is increased bone
resorption, leading to hypercalcemia and pathologic
fractures.

 myeloma cells
compromise the function of normal B cells. Ironically,although the plasma has elevated levels of immuno-
globulin owing to the presence of an M protein, the
production of functional antibodies often is profoundly
depressed.

 stems from several pathologic
effects of myeloma that may occur alone or in combi-
nation. Most important are obstructive proteinaceous casts,
which often form in the distal convoluted tubules and
the collecting ducts. The casts consist mostly of Bence
Jones proteins along with variable amounts of complete
immunoglobulin, Tamm-Horsfall protein, and albumin.
Light chain deposition in the glomeruli or the interstitium,
either as amyloid or linear deposits, also may contribute
to renal damage. Completing the assault is hypercalce-
mia, which may lead to dehydration and renal stones,
and frequent bouts of bacterial pyelonephritis, which stem
in part from the hypogammaglobulinemia.

 misfolded proteins activate apop-
totic pathways, and myeloma cells are prone to the accu-
mulation of misfolded, unpaired immunoglobulin chains.
Proteasome inhibitors likely induce myeloma cell death
by exacerbating this inherent tendency. 

#药物 The thalidomide-
like compound lenalidomide also is effective in treat-
ing myeloma, but through a different mechanism that
involves its ability to stimulate the degradation of specific
proteins with oncogenic activities. Biphosphonates, drugs
that inhibit bone resorption, reduce pathologic fractures
and limit the hypercalcemia. Hematopoietic stem cell
transplantation prolongs life but has not yet proven to be
curative.

Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma

Virtually all cases of lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma
are associated with acquired mutations in MYD88. The
MYD88 gene encodes an adaptor protein that partici-
pates in signaling events that activate NF-κB and also
augment signals downstream of the BCR (Ig) complex,
both of which may promote the growth and survival of the
tumor cells.

 The lymphoid component expresses
B cell markers such as CD20 and surface immunoglobu-
lin, whereas the plasma cell component secretes the same
immunoglobulin that is expressed on the surface of the
lymphoid cells. In almost all tumors, the secreted immu-
noglobulin is an IgM.

Patients with IgM-secreting tumors have additional
signs and symptoms stemming from the physicochemi-
cal properties of IgM. Because of its large size, at high
concentrations IgM greatly increases the viscosity of the
blood, giving rise to a hyperviscosity syndrome characterized
by the following:
• Visual impairment associated with venous congestion,
which is reflected by striking tortuosity and distention
of retinal veins; retinal hemorrhages and exudates may
also contribute to problems with vision
• Neurologic problems such as headaches, dizziness, deaf-
ness, and stupor, all stemming from sluggish venous
blood flow
• Bleeding related to the formation of complexes between
macroglobulins and clotting factors as well as interfer-
ence with platelet function
• Cryoglobulinemia resulting from the precipitation of
macroglobulins at low temperatures, which produces
symptoms such as Raynaud phenomenon and cold
urticaria

Hodgkin Lymphoma

Hodgkin lymphoma encompasses a distinctive group of
neoplasms that are characterized by the presence of a
tumor giant cell, the RS cell. Unlike most NHLs, Hodgkin
lymphomas arise in a single lymph node or chain of
lymph nodes and typically spread in a stepwise fashion
to anatomically contiguous nodes.

lymphomas are now understood to be unusual tumors of B
cell origin, they are distinguished from the NHLs by their
unusual pathologic and clinical features.
Classification. Five subtypes of Hodgkin lymphoma are
recognized: (1) nodular sclerosis, (2) mixed cellularity, (3)
lymphocyte rich, (4) lymphocyte depletion, and (5) lym-
phocyte predominant. In the first four subtypes the RS cells
share certain morphologic and immunophenotypic fea-
tures (described later), leading some researchers to lump
together these entities under the rubric classical Hodgkin
lymphoma. The lymphocyte predominant type is set apart
by the expression of germinal center B cell markers by the
RS cells. This subtype and the two most common forms
of classical Hodgkin lymphoma, the nodular sclerosis and
mixed-cellularity types, are discussed next.

 every RS cell from any given case possesses
the same immunoglobulin gene rearrangements and that
these rearranged immunoglobulin genes have undergone
somatic hypermutation. As a result, it is now agreed that
Hodgkin lymphoma is a neoplasm that arises from ger-
minal center B cells

Hodgkin lymphoma is a cardinal example of a tumor
that escapes from the host immune response by expressing
proteins that inhibit T cell function. The RS cells of classi-
cal Hodgkin lymphoma express high levels of PD ligands,
factors that antagonize T cell responses. In many tumors
the region on chromosome 9 containing the genes encod-
ing the two PD ligands, PD-L1 and PD-L2, is amplified, an
alteration that appears to contribute to their overexpression.
The importance of PD ligand expression has been proven
in clinical trials of antibodies that block PD-1, which is the T
cell receptor for PD ligands (Chapter 6). Most tumors, even
those that are resistant to all other therapies, are responsive
to PD-1 antibodies, presumably because of the reactivation
of a latent host response that was stifled by the PD ligand/
PD-1 signaling axis.

Acute Myeloid Leukemia

Most AMLs harbor mutations in genes encoding tran-
scription factors that are required for normal myeloid cell
differentiation. These mutations interfere with the differ-
entiation of early myeloid cells, leading to the accumulation
of myeloid precursors (blasts) in the marrow. Of particular
interest is the (15;17) translocation in acute promyelocytic
leukemia, which results in the fusion of the retinoic acid
receptor α (RARA) gene on chromosome 17 and the PML
gene on chromosome 15. The chimeric gene produces a
PML/RARA fusion protein that blocks myeloid differentia-
tion at the promyelocytic stage, probably in part by inhibiting
the function of normal retinoic acid receptors. Remarkably,
pharmacologic doses of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), an analogue of vitamin A (Chapter 7), overcome this block
and induce the neoplastic promyelocytes to differentiate
into neutrophils rapidly. Because neutrophils die after an
average life span of 6 hours, ATRA treatment rapidly clears
the tumor. The effect is very specific; AMLs without trans-
locations involving RARA do not respond to ATRA. More
recently, it has been noted that the combination of ATRA
and arsenic trioxide, a salt that induces the degradation of
the PML/RARA fusion protein, is even more effective than
ATRA alone, producing cures in more than 80% of patients.
This is an important example of a highly effective therapy
targeted at a tumor-specific molecular defect.

 the mutations
in transcription factors found in AML are not sufficient
to cause the disease. Putative collaborating mutations in
several other tyrosine kinase genes and in the RAS gene
have been detected.
Sequencing of the AML genomes also has identified
frequent mutations in genes that directly impact the epi-
genome, suggesting that epigenetic alterations have a
central role in AML. For example, about 15% to 20% of
AMLs are associated with mutations in isocitrate dehy-
drogenase (IDH). In such tumors, an “oncometabolite”
synthesized by the mutated IDH protein blocks the func-
tion of enzymes that regulate the epigenome and interferes
with myeloid cell differentiation (discussed in Chapter 6).
Inhibitors of mutant IDH prevent the production of the
oncometabolite and often produce remissions in this par-
ticular molecular subtype of AML

 The expression of immunologic
markers is heterogeneous in AML. Most tumors express
some combination of myeloid-associated antigens, such as
CD13, CD14, CD15, CD64, or CD117 (KIT). CD34, a marker
of hematopoietic stem cells, is often present on myelo-
blasts. Such markers are helpful in distinguishing AML


Myelodysplastic Syndromes

In MDSs, the bone marrow is partly or wholly replaced
by the clonal progeny of a transformed multipotent stem
cell that retains the capacity to differentiate into red cells,
granulocytes, and platelets, but in a manner that is both
ineffective and disordered. As a result, the marrow usually
is hypercellular or normocellular, but the peripheral blood
shows one or more cytopenias. The abnormal stem cell
clone in the bone marrow is genetically unstable and prone
to the acquisition of additional mutations and the even-
tual transformation to AML. Most cases are idiopathic, but
some develop after chemotherapy with alkylating agents
or exposure to ionizing radiation therapy.

 Epigenetic factors. Frequent mutations are seen involving
many of the same epigenetic factors that are mutated in
AML, including factors that regulate DNA methylation
and histone modifications; thus, like AML, dysregula-
tion of the epigenome appears to be important in the
genesis of MDS.
• RNA splicing factors. A subset of tumors has mutations
involving the RNA splicing machinery that are proposed
to drive transformation by altering RNA processing,
They are commonly associated with ring sideroblasts,
a classic form of dysplasia that is seen in a subset
of MDS.
• Transcription factors. These mutations affect transcrip-
tion factors that are required for normal myelopoiesis
and may contribute to the deranged differentiation that
characterizes MDS.

Myeloproliferative Neoplasms

The common pathogenic feature of myeloproliferative
neoplasms is the presence of mutated, constitutively acti-
vated tyrosine kinases or other acquired aberrations in
signaling pathways that lead to growth factor indepen-
dence.

Four major diagnostic entities are recognized: chronic
myeloid leukemia (CML), polycythemia vera, primary
myelofibrosis, and essential thrombocythemia. Their dis-
tinctive features are listed below:
• CML is separated from the others by its association with
a characteristic abnormality, the BCR-ABL fusion gene,
which produces a constitutively active BCR-ABL tyro-
sine kinase.
• The most common genetic abnormalities in the “BCR-
ABL–negative” myeloproliferative neoplasms are acti-
vating mutations in the tyrosine kinase JAK2, which
occur in virtually all cases of polycythemia vera and
about 50% of cases of primary myelofibrosis and essen-
tial thrombocythemia
• Some rare myeloproliferative neoplasms are associated
with activating mutations in other tyrosine kinases,
such as platelet-derived growth factor receptor-α and
platelet-derived growth factor receptor-β.

In addition, all myeloproliferative neoplasms have vari-
able propensities to transform to a “spent phase” resem-
bling primary myelofibrosis or to a “blast crisis” identical
to acute leukemia, both presumably triggered by the acqui-
sition of other somatic mutations. Only CML, polycythe-
mia vera, and primary myelofibrosis are presented here,
as other myeloproliferative neoplasms are too infrequent
to merit discussion.


Acute Myeloid Leukemia

Most AMLs harbor mutations in genes encoding tran-
scription factors that are required for normal myeloid cell
differentiation. These mutations interfere with the differ-
entiation of early myeloid cells, leading to the accumulation
of myeloid precursors (blasts) in the marrow. Of particular
interest is the (15;17) translocation in acute promyelocytic
leukemia, which results in the fusion of the retinoic acid
receptor α (RARA) gene on chromosome 17 and the PML
gene on chromosome 15. The chimeric gene produces a
PML/RARA fusion protein that blocks myeloid differentia-
tion at the promyelocytic stage, probably in part by inhibiting
the function of normal retinoic acid receptors. Remarkably,
pharmacologic doses of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), analogue of vitamin A (Chapter 7), overcome this block
and induce the neoplastic promyelocytes to differentiate
into neutrophils rapidly. Because neutrophils die after an
average life span of 6 hours, ATRA treatment rapidly clears
the tumor. The effect is very specific; AMLs without trans-
locations involving RARA do not respond to ATRA. More
recently, it has been noted that the combination of ATRA
and arsenic trioxide, a salt that induces the degradation of
the PML/RARA fusion protein, is even more effective than
ATRA alone, producing cures in more than 80% of patients.
This is an important example of a highly effective therapy
targeted at a tumor-specific molecular defect.


Sequencing of the AML genomes also has identified
frequent mutations in genes that directly impact the epi-
genome, suggesting that epigenetic alterations have a
central role in AML. For example, about 15% to 20% of
AMLs are associated with mutations in isocitrate dehy-
drogenase (IDH). In such tumors, an “oncometabolite”
synthesized by the mutated IDH protein blocks the func-
tion of enzymes that regulate the epigenome and interferes
with myeloid cell differentiation (discussed in Chapter 6).
Inhibitors of mutant IDH prevent the production of the
oncometabolite and often produce remissions in this par-
ticular molecular subtype of AML.

 Auer rods, distinctive red-staining rodlike struc-
tures, may be present in myeloblasts or more differentiated cells;
they are particularly numerous in acute promyelocytic leukemia
(Fig. 12.27). Auer rods are specific for neoplastic myeloblasts
and thus are a helpful diagnostic clue when present. In other
subtypes of AML, monoblasts, erythroblasts, or megakaryoblasts
predominate.

The WHO
classification relies on all of these features to divide AML
into four categories (Table 12.11): (1) AMLs associated
with specific genetic aberrations, which are important
because they predict outcome and they guide therapy;
(2) AMLs with dysplasia, many of which arise from
MDSs; (3) AMLs occurring after genotoxic chemotherapy;
and (4) AMLs lacking any of the foregoing features. AMLs
in the last category are subclassified based on the predomi-
nant line of differentiation that the tumor exhibits.

 The expression of immunologic
markers is heterogeneous in AML. Most tumors express
some combination of myeloid-associated antigens, such as
CD13, CD14, CD15, CD64, or CD117 (KIT). CD34, a marker
of hematopoietic stem cells, is often present on myelo-
blasts. Such markers are helpful in distinguishing AML

AML associated
with TP53 mutations has emerged as a subtype with a par-
ticularly poor prognosis. A bright spot is the improvement
in outcomes in acute promyelocytic leukemia brought
about by targeted treatment with ATRA and arsenic salts.
IDH inhibitors also have produced encouraging results,
apparently (like ATRA) by inducing the differentiation of
AML blasts. An increasing number of patients with AML
are being treated with more aggressive approaches, such as
allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, which
can be curative in some patients.

Myelodysplastic Syndromes

a group of clonal stem cell disorders characterized by In MDSs, the bone marrow is partly or wholly replaced by the clonal progeny of a transformed multipotent stem
cell that retains the capacity to differentiate into red cells,
granulocytes, and platelets, but in a manner that is both
ineffective and disordered. As a result, the marrow usually
is hypercellular or normocellular, but the peripheral blood
shows one or more cytopenias. The abnormal stem cell
clone in the bone marrow is genetically unstable and prone
to the acquisition of additional mutations and the even-
tual transformation to AML. Most cases are idiopathic, but
some develop after chemotherapy with alkylating agents
or exposure to ionizing radiation therapy.

 Epigenetic factors. Frequent mutations are seen involving
many of the same epigenetic factors that are mutated in
AML, including factors that regulate DNA methylation
and histone modifications; thus, like AML, dysregula-
tion of the epigenome appears to be important in the
genesis of MDS.
• RNA splicing factors. A subset of tumors has mutations
involving the RNA splicing machinery that are proposed
to drive transformation by altering RNA processing,
They are commonly associated with ring sideroblasts,
a classic form of dysplasia that is seen in a subset
of MDS.
• Transcription factors. These mutations affect transcrip-
tion factors that are required for normal myelopoiesis
and may contribute to the deranged differentiation that
characterizes MDS.

 roughly 10% of MDS cases have loss-of-
function mutations in the tumor suppressor gene TP53,
which correlate with the presence of a complex karyo-
type and particularly poor clinical outcomes. Both primary
MDS and therapy-related MDS are associated with similar
recurrent chromosomal abnormalities, including monosomies 5
and 7, deletions of 5q, 7q, and 20q, and trisomy 8.

Chronic Myeloid Leukemia

CML is distinguished from other myeloproliferative
neoplasms by the presence of a chimeric BCR-ABL gene
derived from portions of the BCR gene on chromosome
22 and the ABL gene on chromosome 9. In about 95% of
cases, the BCR-ABL gene is the product of a balanced (9;22)
translocation that moves ABL from chromosome 9 to a posi-
tion on chromosome 22 adjacent to BCR. In the remaining 5% of cases, a BCR-ABL fusion gene is created by cyto-
genetically cryptic or complex rearrangements involving
more than two chromosomes. The BCR-ABL fusion gene
is present in granulocytic, erythroid, megakaryocytic, and
B cell precursors, and in some cases T cell precursors as
well, indicating that the tumor arises from a transformed
hematopoietic stem cell. Although the Ph chromosome is
highly characteristic of CML, it also is present in 25% of
adult B cell–ALLs and a small subset of AMLs.

 the BCR-ABL gene encodes
a fusion protein consisting of portions of BCR and the
tyrosine kinase domain of ABL. Normal myeloid progeni-
tors depend on signals generated by growth factors and
their receptors for growth and survival. The growth factor
dependence of CML progenitors is greatly decreased by
constitutive signals generated by BCR-ABL that mimic
the effects of growth factor receptor activation. Impor-
tantly, because BCR-ABL does not inhibit differentiation,
the early disease course is marked by excessive production
of relatively normal blood cells, particularly granulocytes
and platelets

 Sometimes the first symptom is a dragging
sensation in the abdomen caused by splenomegaly. On
occasion it may be necessary to distinguish CML from
a lekemoid reaction a dramatic elevation of the granu-
locyte count in response to infection, stress, chronic
inflammation, and certain neoplasms. This distinction
can be achieved definitively by testing for the presence
of the BCR-ABL fusion gene, which can be done by
karyotyping, fluorescence in situ hybridization, or PCR
assay.

The natural history of CML initially is one of slow pro-
gression. Even without treatment, the median survival is 3
years. After a variable (and unpredictable) period, approxi-
mately half of CML cases enter an accelerated phase
marked by increasing anemia and new thrombocytopenia,
the appearance of additional cytogenetic abnormalities,
and finally transformation into a picture resembling acute
leukemia (blast crisis). In the remaining 50% of cases, blast
crisis occurs abruptly, without an accelerated phase. Of
note, in 30% of cases the blast crisis resembles precursor-B
cell ALL, further attesting to the origin of CML from hema-
topoietic stem cells. In the remaining 70% of cases, the blast
crisis resembles AML. Less commonly, CML progresses
to a phase of extensive bone marrow fibrosis resembling
primary myelofibrosis.

Polycythemia Vera

Polycythemia vera is strongly associated with activat-
ing point mutations in the tyrosine kinase JAK2. JAK2
normally acts in the signaling pathways downstream of
the erythropoietin receptor and other growth factor recep-
tors. The most common JAK2 mutation, sharply lowers the
dependence of hematopoietic cells on growth factors for
growth and survival. This produces excessive proliferation
of erythroid, granulocytic, and megakaryocytic elements
(panmyelosis), 

 polycythemia vera to evolve to a “spent phase”
resembling primary myelofibrosis. 

Owing to the extensive marrow fibrosis,
hematopoiesis shifts to the spleen, which enlarges mark-
edly. Inhibitors that target JAK2 have been approved for
treatment of the spent phase of polycythemia vera and lead to some improvement in most patients. Transformation to
a “blast crisis” identical to AML also occurs, but much less
frequently than in CML.

Primary Myelofibrosis

The hallmark of primary myelofibrosis is the development
of obliterative marrow fibrosis, which reduces bone marrow
hematopoiesis and leads to cytopenias and extensive extra-
medullary hematopoiesis

It is believed that the characteristic marrow fibrosis is
caused by the inappropriate release of fibrogenic factors
from neoplastic megakaryocytes. Two factors synthesized
by megakaryocytes have been implicated: platelet-derived
growth factor and TGF-β. As you recall, platelet-derived
growth factor and TGF-β are fibroblast mitogens. In addi-
tion, TGF-β promotes collagen deposition and causes
angiogenesis, both of which are observed in myelofibrosis.

Langerhans Cell Histiocytoses
The term histiocytosis is an “umbrella” designation for
a variety of proliferative disorders of dendritic cells or
macrophages. Some, such as very rare histiocytic lym-
phomas, are highly malignant neoplasms. Others, such as
most histiocytic proliferations in lymph nodes, are com-
pletely benign and reactive. Between these two extremes
lie a group of relatively rare tumors comprised of Langer-
hans cells, the Langerhans cell histiocytoses. As described in
Chapter 5, Langerhans cells are immature dendritic cells
found in the epidermis; similar cells are found in many
other organs, and they function to capture antigens and
display them to T cells.

A clue to the pathogenesis of Langerhans cell tumors
lies in the discovery that the different clinical forms are
frequently associated with an acquired mutation in the
serine/threonine kinase BRAF, that leads to hyperactivity
of the kinase. This same mutation is found in a variety
of other tumors, including hairy cell leukemia (described
earlier), benign nevi, malignant melanoma, papillary
thyroid carcinoma, and some colon cancers (Chapter 6).
BRAF is a component of the RAS signaling pathway that
drives cellular proliferation and survival, effects that likely
contribute to the growth of neoplastic Langerhans cells.


#药物 



To prevent tumor lysis syndrome (hyperuricemia, hyperkalemia, hypocal-
cemia, renal insufficiency, as blasts are destroyed by chemotherapy),
patients should be well hydrated. If WBC counts are ↑, they may also be
started on allopurinol or rasburicase (often used in the pediatric popula-
tion) to decrease serum uric acid as renal protection. Rasburicase is con-
traindicated in G6PD deficiency.

 Chemotherapy with fludarabine and chlorambucil.

 Chronic: Treat with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (eg, imatinib). Young
patients may be candidates for allogeneic stem cell transplantation if a
matched sibling donor is available.
■
 Blast crisis: Same as that for acute leukemia, or second-generation tyro-
sine kinase inhibitors (eg, dasatinib, nilotinib) plus hematopoietic stem
cell transplantation or a clinical trial.

Best initial treatment: Cladribine.
■
 Alternative treatment options include pentostatin, splenectomy, and IFN-α.
■
 Median survival without treatment is 5 years. If left untreated, most
patients will develop progressive pancytopenia and splenomegaly, eventu-
ally requiring therapy.

A common regimen is rituximab, cyclophosphamide,
doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (R CHOP).

A common chemotherapy regimen is Adriamycin
(doxorubicin), bleomycin, vinblastine, dacarbazine (ABVD).

 Common chemotherapeutic agents are
cyclophosphamide, bortezomib, melphalan (an oral alkylating agent),
dexamethasone, and lenalidomide.
■
 Patients > 70 years of age are treated with melphalan and prednisone.


